AsyncAPI Community uses Slack for real-time conversations. It helps us stay closer to each other and to know each other better. Join us by following [this](https://www.asyncapi.com/slack-invite/) invitation and the following etiquette:

- Respect each other. Choose empathy over judgement. Act according to [the AsyncAPI Code of Conduct](https://github.com/asyncapi/.github/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)
- Run discussions in threads. Every single message in the main thread triggers a notification. Another message triggers another notification. Let's not ping each other when it is not necessary. It is the main cause for people to mute channels. Always reply to a message in a thread.
- Avoid using `@channel` and `@here` unless the description of a given channel specifically allows it.
- Once you post a message with links, remove generated previews. Leave them only if they add some more context to the message.
- Channels with `N_` prefix (for example, `1_` or `10_`) are considered to be officially maintained because they are always mentioned in the welcome message for new joiners, and project contributors and committers (maintainers) are always encouraged to join them.
- If you need a dedicated channel for some discussion, feel free to create it but don't use numeric prefixes that are only allowed for officially maintained channels.
- Do not add or use flashing, blinking, and flickering emojis/gifs that can lead to photosensitive epilepsy.
- Once you decide to mute a channel, we encourage you to configure alerts for discussions that are still interesting for you. We do not want to lose your input. Go to **Settings** -> **Notifications** -> **My keywords** section. How does it work? If you are in our Slack because of Kafka, mute the channel if it is too noisy and set a notification to ping you only if `kafka` is mentioned in the message. For more details read [this article](https://slack.com/intl/en-pl/slack-tips/get-notified-when-someone-mentions-a-topic-you-care-about).
